Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course on Tableau. In today's tutorial,
we're going to have a look at where to
get the data set and what the challenge
is for this section.
Alright so to get the data set as usual
we'll need a browser and we need to go
to www.superdatascience.com/tableau-advanced,
if you scroll down here to the bottom
you'll see section 6 level of detail
calculations. So the challenge PDF is
what we'll look at just now and then
making merchandise is the data set. So
let's have a look at the challenge so
this is our challenge for today, you have
been approached by a retail chain
operating in the US. They would like you
to recreate the visualization which is
depicted on the following page. Let's
have a look. This is a visualization that
they're like you to recreate and here
we've got two types of elements. We've
got the states, they're colored and the
circles. So let's have a look at the
notes. State colors represent the average
profit across the cities of that state.
So each state, if it's a dark blue that
means the average profit for the cities
in that state is high if it's red or
orange, it's negative and then circle
colors and sizes show the percent
contribution of the profit of the
respective city towards the overall
profit of the state.
So for instance in Wyoming we've only
got two cities, you can see this red large
circle signifies that that city had a
negative but very large contribution
towards that overall negative profit of
Wyoming. This city had a smaller but
positive contribution to that profit.
Let's have a look at another example for
instance in California, we've got lots of
cities and their sizes represent the
percent contribution towards the profit
of California for each one of those
cities. So there we go quite an
interesting challenge ahead of us and
we're going to be using a level of
detailed calculations to solve it and
now let's quickly have a look at the
data set so we know what we're dealing
with. So here it is Megan merchandise.xlsx
and if you have a look here we've
got actually actually got two tabs, tab1
has order IDs and for each other ID
has some information so the date, the
customer, the country, region, state, city
and postal code, segment shift a shift
mode so basically order ID in this tab
is unique so it's just order ID and then
information about that order ID where is
in order breakdown order ID is no longer
unique here we can see that for every
order that we might have several items
so for instance for this first order
we've got two items that constitute
disorder than this order
looks like it's just one single item
then this order has three items in it. So
as you can see there's lots of different
levels of granularity at which you can
visually creative visualization so
you've got the order items, order ID then
you've got the city's, you've got the
state's, you've got the region, you've got
the country and so on. So it's going to
be quite interesting challenge. Can't
wait to get started on it. So make sure
you download the data set and have a
look at it so that you are prepared to
proceed with this section. Its going to be
quite a challenging section. I'll be up
front with you but at the same time will
learn a lot and we'll learn some very
powerful techniques in Tableau. Can't wait to
get started, I
look forward to seeing you in the next
tutorial and until then happy analyzing.